[Music]
hi my name is dr. David Oliver McAra
prac there and today what we're gonna
talk to you about is forward head
posture forward head posture is
basically anytime you take your head and
it gets moved in front of your body it's
an abnormal posture that we see in
people it's probably the number one
postural distortion I see with my
patients and there's a really good
reason for this it's what we all do in
society nowadays sitting in front of
computers driving our cars texting on
our phones all of those activities
involve focusing on something in front
of you and anytime your body focuses on
something in front of it the tendency is
to move forward so if we're looking at a
computer screen your body is going to
want to move or get closer to that
object and then when we're texting which
is super common nowadays we have this
position again your head is in front of
your body so that's that forward head
posture the reason this is so
problematic is the mount your head waist
most heads on average weigh 10 to 14
pounds now if you extrapolate that take
that into real-world situations think of
a bowling ball most bowling balls are on
the high end ten to fourteen pounds so
you take that bowling ball and stick it
on top of your body something's gonna
have to keep that up there so basically
the muscles in your upper back and neck
your ligaments two joints your spine
have to maintain that position so your
head doesn't flop down hit in the chest
so if we move that object in front of
our body it actually causes that more
stress they've done Studies on it and
through gravitational forces every inch
your body your head moves forward it
gains ten pounds
move it two inches forward three inches
forward you could be up to 30 to 34
pounds of pressure that needs to be
absorbed by those muscles and those
ligaments you know we palpate around and
you feel around anybody in this area
right here and you do it to yourself
right now you're gonna probably feel
some kind of bumpy knotty things up
there that's not the way that's supposed
to be the reason you're having that is
because those muscles have been under
high load for extended periods of time
for years now so you're gonna develop
adhesions you're gonna develop trigger
points in those muscles which can be
felt all the way down into the mid so
even the low back the other area that
can be affected is the actual spine
itself so the joints of the spine are
the bony portions of the spine can now
become more degenerative over time so
you're placing more stress on the spine
over time the spine naturally
degenerates but if you put the spine you
put the head more importantly in a
different position it puts more pressure
into these joints eventually that's
gonna start to lead to wear and tear so
degenerative changes if you do that
enough there's also a thing between the
vertebra the discs of the spine which
can become problematic as well you know
you've heard of bulged discs herniated
discs these are very common and very
problematic for people so that anterior
head position can really cause abnormal
stress on those discs and eventually
lead to wear and tear and this is
something that we see very often in my
office and is something I prefer not to
see but there's easy ways to address
this and fix this all right so let's go
through three exercises we can use to
try to correct this forward head posture
and these postural distortions we see in
people the first one we're gonna go
through is called a chin tuck basically
if you turn to the side you're gonna
take the head it typically isn't that
forward head position well we're just
going to reverse it we're just gonna
bring it back some people this is
actually a very hard thing to do but
essentially all we're gonna do is we're
gonna tuck butch in backwards it's an
abnormal motion repeat for people and it
feels weird and some people don't even
have great range of motion when they do
it so what we'll have people start out
doing is taking two fingers placing it
on their chin and they're gently going
to push backwards okay you're gonna go
as far as you feel comfortable if this
causes any abnormal pain in your neck or
any emeral pain anywhere else this is
not a good exercise for you and you
should not do it but we're just trying
to accentuate or trying to get that chin
to go backwards to get your body more
comfortable being in that position
initially it might just feel awkward and
a little bit uncomfortable or achy
that's totally normal because your
body's not used to that you've spent so
much time with your head in this
position getting it back to a normal
position here is not gonna feel great
for you so this exercise generally
there's two ways to do it we can do
repetitions or we can do hold so you can
just sit there and work on if you're
using your fingers push them back nice
and slow repetitions 10 to 15 is usually
a good number as you get comfortable
with it you want to take your fingers
away you want to learn to be able to do
that motion yourself so what you should
essentially feel is some packing in the
front of your neck it gets kind of tight
and then
you might feel a little bit of stretched
discomfort in this upper back and it's
up on this in this upper neck here which
is totally normal so 10 to 15 times in
the reps or you can do holds so you can
sit here and you can hold the position
for up to 10 seconds and you can just
repeat that 5 times this is an easy
exercise I give this to all my patients
with any upper back or neck dysfunction
that are qualified for it the the reason
I like is cuz you can do it anywhere
most people I tell them to do it in the
car when they get to a traffic light
when you get to a red light sit there
bang out ten of them and then go on you
can do that several times a day you can
even do it in your office some people
don't feel comfortable doing that but
you know it's better than having neck
pain isn't it alright so the second
exercise we're going to do is actually
gonna be targeted at the upper back and
the neck you know when people have that
forward head posture it's not just the
head that typically comes forward it's
actually the shoulders that come forward
as well so as the head moves forward we
tend to round into it especially when
we're typing and we're working on
computers or texting or driving
everything nowadays is in front of us so
our shoulders actually start to come
forward so on our back side our shoulder
blades which sit on our back tend to
come rounded forward a little bit on
most people so what we want to do is we
want to work on an exercise to bring
those back into a more neutral position
and then at the same time work on
keeping our head in a nice neutral
stable position so it's called the W
exercise so the reason it's called the W
is because you're gonna start with your
arms bent at the side like this so
you're in the shape of W so you're
simply gonna take your shoulder blades
on your back and you're gonna squeeze
them together and down so my shoulder
blades are on my back I'm bringing them
together and down the analogy for most
people is feel like you're tucking your
shoulder blades in your back pocket it's
really important with this exercise that
you don't overdo it you're not sitting
there trying to squeeze your shoulder
blades as hard as possible that is
actually going to bring your shoulders
up which is the opposite of what we want
to do so if I'm gonna spin around I'm
gonna show you what it looks like from
the backside so if we're here with the W
position you're gently gonna bring your
shoulders together and down again you're
not jamming them together here it's just
the gentle squeeze together you should
feel this motion distraction go on in
that mid-back at the same time it's
really important to pay attention to
your head position most people as they
do this move that head forward just like
we don't want to do right
so you want to get that head in a nice
neutral tucked position like we showed
you an exercise one and then at the same
time a gentle squeeze between those
shoulder blades with this exercise
you're gonna hold you're gonna hold five
seconds and then you're gonna repeat
five times so again we're working on
bringing those shoulder blades together
and down slightly and we can hold good
five second hold and relax and you're
gonna do it again
you're gonna tuck and squeeze the
shoulders it's a very small movement
that you see in the mid-back and the
shoulder blades and relax
so the third exercise we're gonna do is
a good combination exercise it takes in
pieces of the first and second exercise
and it expands on that even further it's
called the Y wlt exercise so for letters
it's basically going to describe the
positions we're going to be in - so
you're gonna essentially start with your
arms up into a big Y position so nice
and tall arms you're gonna make sure
you're not shrugged up you're gonna be
relaxed in your shoulders you're gonna
make sure your head again is not coming
forward you're gonna keep that head in a
nice neutral position so up in this Y
position you're gonna expand your hands
and you're gonna pull your arms back as
far as you feel comfortable you should
feel nice strong stretch through your
your chest here and into your arms and
even into your hands so we're gonna sit
in that position for two big belly
breaths so you're gonna want to breathe
in nice and deep breathe in through your
nose and breathe out through your mouth
so we're gonna sit there two breaths
good from that position where to go from
the Y we're gonna drop down into a W so
we did the W already so we're just
combining this one into this third
exercise right here so again elbows down
to the side now we're really expanding
opening that chest up you want to feel
that strong stretch you want to feel it
through your mid-back - Beth's again
from there we're gonna drop down to the
L this is usually the most aggressive
stretch we feel with this we're really
gonna pinch our elbows to our side we
want to make sure we get those guys down
and you almost want a picture you got
someone behind you grabbing your thumbs
and pulling them together you want to
feel a good strong squeeze in between
these shoulder blades you're making sure
as you do this you're not rising up
you're keeping your shoulders nice and
relaxed
and you're keeping your head in a good
neutral position so again two breaths of
that one and then we're gonna shoot out
to the T position so straight arms right
out we're spreading those fingers we're
open to chest up we're keeping our
shoulders relaxed we're not letting them
shrug up and we're keeping that head
nice and neutral for another two counts
so two breaths
so in through your nose through your
mouth and we're to do that twice so
that's the Y wlt so you will live taller
however you want to remember it is good
for me but those are good posture break
exercises do this several times a day
it'll help open your chest up help keep
your head in a good neutral position and
it'll help combat some of that stressful
forward head posture you're doing it to
yourself every day all right we hope you
enjoyed this video and if you'd like us
to send you a PDF of some of the most
effective exercises to fix forward head
posture we'll send it to your email all
you need to do is click on a link
somewhere here on the video or there's
going to be a link in the description
below if you're watching on YouTube and
we'll send you that PDF right away
otherwise please like and share this
video if you enjoyed it and make sure to
check out our website back intelligence
calm
[Music]